docs/usage.md, before:

# Using c2pa-attacks 

- [Command-line syntax](#command-line-syntax)
- [Supported target values](#supported-target-values)
  - [Direct substitution](#direct-substitution)
  - [Regex substitution](#regex-substitution)
- [Creating attack files](#creating-attack-files)
- [Providing a manifest definition on the command line](#providing-a-manifest-definition-on-the-command-line)
- [Adding a manifest to an asset file](#adding-a-manifest-to-an-asset-file)
  - [Specifying a parent file](#specifying-a-parent-file)
- [Detailed manifest report](#detailed-manifest-report)
- [Forced overwrite](#forced-overwrite)

## Command-line syntax

The command-line syntax for `c2pa-attacks` is:

```
c2pa-attacks [OPTIONS] [path]
```

Where `<path>`  is the path to the asset to embed a manifest into.

The following table describes the command-line options.

| CLI&nbsp;option&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | Short version | Argument | Description |
|-----|----|----|----|
| `--target` | `-t` | `<target>` | Specifies the target value for injection. One of: `title`, `author`, `claim_generator`, `person_identifier`, `vendor`, `label`, `instance_id`, `format`, or `regex`. See [Supported target values](#supported-target-values). |
| `--attack_file` | `-a` | `<attack_file>` | Specifies the file with the list of injections. See [Creating attack files](#creating-attack-files). |
| `--config` | `-c` | `<config>` | Specifies a manifest definition as a JSON string. See [Providing a manifest definition on the command line](#providing-a-manifest-definition-on-the-command-line). |
| `--manifest` | `-m` | `<manifest_file>` | Specifies a manifest file to add to an asset file. See [Adding a manifest to an asset file](#adding-a-manifest-to-an-asset-file).
| `--parent` | `-p` | `<parent_file>` | Specifies the path to the parent file. See [Specifying a parent file](#specifying-a-parent-file). |
| `--no_signing_verify` | None | N/A |  Do not validate the signature after signing an asset, which speeds up signing. See [Speeding up signing](#speeding-up-signing) |
| `--output` | `-o` | `<output_file>` | Specifies the path and title for the output files. See [Displaying manifest data](#adding-a-manifest-to-an-asset-file). |
| `--detailed` | `-d` | N/A | Display detailed C2PA-formatted manifest data. See [Detailed manifest report](#detailed-manifest-report). |
| `--trust` | N/A | N/A | Set additional trust validation parameters. See [Configuring trust support](#configuring-trust-support). |
| `--force` | `-f` | N/A | Force overwriting of the output file. See [Forced overwrite](#forced-overwrite). |
| `--version` | `-V` | N/A | Display version information. |
| `--help` | `-h` | N/A | Display CLI help information. |

## Supported target values

The tool can inject malicious strings into manfiests before signing in two ways, depending on the argument of the `--target` option:
- If the argument is `regex`, then it uses [**regular expression substitution**](#regex-substitution) where it replaces the string "C2PA_ATTACK" anywhere it occurs in the manifest JSON file.
- If the argument is any other valid value, it uses [**direct substitution**](#direct-substitution) where it replaces the value of one specified field in the manifest JSON file.  

### Direct substitution

This was the simplest approach when the c2pa-attacks tool was first created. Although, as the C2PA specification and the Rust SDK matured, this approach became less relevant. In most cases, the Regex subsitution is the better approach. Although, several of these options are still usable.

This approach is an easy way to start testing the most common fields without understanding JSON manifests.  The injections in this approach are done after the JSON file has been imported and turned into a manifest structure in memory. As noted below, some of these options are no longer relevant due to changes in the SDK.

This command line option only accepts one value as an argument.

| Argument value | Description | Example value in `test.json` |
|----------------|-------------|------------------------------|
| `title` | The title field for the image. | "My Title" |
| `author` | The author name within the Creative Work assertion. NOTE: The CreativeWork assertion was dropped from version 2.0 of the C2PA specification but it will still be displayed by implementations that are backwards compatible with the 1.0 version. | "Joe Bloggs" |
| `person_identifier` | With the Creative Work assertion, this refers to the Creative Work's URL identifier for that SchemaDotOrg Person entry. For further information, see [C2PA Technical Specification](https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/1.4/specs/C2PA_Specification.html#_use_of_schema_org). NOTE: The CreativeWork assertion was dropped from version 2.0 of the C2PA specification but it will still be displayed by implementations that are backwards compatible with the 1.0 version. | N/A |
| `claim_generator` | The claim generator field in the manifest. | "TestApp" |
| `vendor` | Sets the vendor prefix to be used when generating manifest labels. For some strings, you will see an error that the `claim could not be converted to CBOR`. This means that one of the characters in the attack string is incompatible with CBOR. Attack strings that are compatible with CBOR will work and images will be generated. Note that this value will get a urn:uuid appended to it by the SDK per the specification. | N/A |
| `label` | The label for the claim. This value is expected to be a [GUID](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs/blob/c2pa-v0.48.2/sdk/src/claim.rs#L429) and it is validated according to these [validation rules](https://docs.rs/uuid/latest/src/uuid/parser.rs.html#98-100). Injecting any malicious string that isn't in the GUID format enforced by UUID parser will throw an error. However, this might be useful if you have a need to set specific UUIDs as part of the attack. This represents the primary label for the claim and it does not affect other label values. | N/A |
| `instance_id` | The instance ID for the claim. NOTE: This is currently no longer supported because the latest version of the [SDK overrides](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs/blob/c2pa-v0.48.2/sdk/src/builder.rs#L993) any set value before signing. | N/A |
| `format` | Sets the format for the assertion's ingredient. NOTE: This is currently no longer supported because the current version of the SDK [determines the format](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs/blob/c2pa-v0.48.2/sdk/src/builder.rs#L1125) by looking at the file extension of the file to be signed. If you want the format to be different from the actual file, then change the file extension before signing to a supported file type. See: https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs/blob/c2pa-v0.48.2/sdk/src/utils/mime.rs | N/A |

### Regex substitution

If the target value is `regex`, then tool searches the JSON manifest file for the string, "C2PA_ATTACK" and replaces all occurrences of it with the malicious string before embedding the assertion into the file.  The advantage of this approach is that you can inject malicous strings into any field of the manifest file including custom fields. However, for unit testing, you would likely only want one "C2PA_ATTACK" string per manifest file.

Since the tool injects malicious values into a JSON string, any trailing backslashes or quotes are automatically escaped to ensure the manifest is valid JSON. In addition, the [Serde serialization framework](https://serde.rs/) checks for control characters (0x00 - 0x32) and throws an error if it detects them; see [serde_json's escape logic](https://github.com/serde-rs/json/blob/master/src/read.rs#L787). Therefore, these types of character injections are not allowed in the regex workflow. A future release will add a feature to inject these characters just before signing the file.

## Creating attack files

The C2PA Attack Tool needs to know what values to use for the injection attacks. 
The tool uses plain text _attack files_ that it reads one line at a time.

The specific attack strings that will be successful depend on the target application and its technology stack.  For instance, if you are targeting a web application, then the attack strings might be cross-site scripting injections. If you are targeting a desktop application, then an attack string might be a really long string of 'a's in order to trigger a buffer overflow. 

The [`attacks` directory](../attacks/README.md) contains a few example attack strings to help get you started.  Use these as a starting point to create your own attack files appropriate for your particular situation. 

## Providing a manifest definition on the command line

To provide the manifest definition in a command line argument instead of a file, use the `--config` / `-c` option.

For example, the following command adds a custom assertion called "org.contentauth.test".

```shell
c2pa-attacks sample/image.json \
-c '{"assertions": [{"label": "org.contentauth.test", "data": {"my_key": "C2PA_ATTACK"}}]}' \
-t regex \
-a attacks/xss.attack
```

## Adding a manifest to an asset file

To add manifest data to a file, provide the path to the asset file to be signed and use the `--manifest` / `-m` option with a manifest JSON file as the option argument. Then, use the `--output` / `-o` option to specify the desired location and name suffix for the output files.
If you do not use the `--output` / `-o` option, then the tool will not generate any output.
The tool will put all of the manipulated file in the same folder as the image specified in the output flag. 

CAUTION: If the output file is the same as the source file, the tool will overwrite the source file. 

For example, in the following example line, the tool puts all of the generated files in the `sample_out` directory and will create it if it does not exist. 

```shell
c2pa-attacks sample/image.jpg \
-m sample/test.json \
-o sample_out/signed_image.jpg \
-t title \
-a attacks/xss.attack
```

**IMPORTANT NOTE**: Since the tool produces multiple output files per run, it prefixes the filename specified in the output flag with the target type and (zero-based) line number from the attack file injected. Therefore, the above example would produce output files `title_xss_0_signed_image.jpg`, `title_xss_1_signed_image.jpg`, `title_xss_2_signed_image.jpg`, and so on.

### Specifying a parent file

A parent file represents the state of the image before the current edits were made. 

Specify a parent file as the argument to the `--parent` / `-p` option; for example:

```shell
c2pa-attacks sample/image.jpg \
-m sample/test.json \
-p sample/c.jpg \
-o sample_out/signed_image.jpg \
-t title \
-a attacks/xss.attack
```

You can also specify a parent file in the manifest definition.

## Detailed manifest report

To display a detailed report describing the internal C2PA format of manifests contained in the asset, use the `-d` option. This only works when `-v` is also specified.  The tool displays the detailed report to standard output (stdout). 

## Forced overwrite

The tool will return an error if the output file already exists. Use the `--force` / `-f` option to force overwriting the output file. For example:

```shell
c2pa-attacks sample/image.jpg \
-m sample/test.json \
-f -o sample_out/signed_image.jpg
```

## Speeding up signing

By default, `c2patool` validates the signature immediately after signing a manifest. To disable this and speed up the validation process, use the `--no_signing_verify` option.

## Configuring trust support

Enable trust support by using the `trust` subcommand, as follows:

```
c2patool [path] trust [OPTIONS]
```

When the `trust` subcommand is supplied, should c2patool encounter a problem with validating any of the claims in the asset, its JSON output will contain a `validation_status` field whose value is an array of objects, each describing a validation problem.

### Additional options

Several additional CLI options are available with the `trust` sub-command to specify the location of files containing the trust anchors list or known certificate list, as described in the following table. You can also use environment variables to specify these values.

<div class="trust-table" markdown="1">

| Option | Environment variable | Description |
| ------ | -------------------- | ----------- | 
| `--trust_anchors` | `C2PATOOL_TRUST_ANCHORS` | URL or relative path to a file containing a list of trust anchors (in PEM format) used to validate the manifest certificate chain. To be valid, the manifest certificate chain must lead to a certificate on the trust list. All certificates in the trust anchor list must have the [Basic Constraints extension](https://docs.digicert.com/en/iot-trust-manager/certificate-templates/create-json-formatted-certificate-templates/extensions/basic-constraints.html) and the CA attribute of this extension must be `True`.  |
| `--allowed_list` | `C2PATOOL_ALLOWED_LIST` | URL or relative path to a file containing a list of end-entity certificates (in PEM format) to trust. These certificates are used to sign the manifest. Supersedes the `trust_anchors` setting. The list must NOT contain certificates with the [Basic Constraints extension](https://docs.digicert.com/en/iot-trust-manager/certificate-templates/create-json-formatted-certificate-templates/extensions/basic-constraints.html) with the CA attribute `True`. |
| `--trust_config` | `C2PATOOL_TRUST_CONFIG` | URL or relative path to a file containing the allowed set of custom certificate extended key usages (EKUs). Each entry in the list is an object identifiers in [OID dot notation](http://www.oid-info.com/#oid) format.  |

Commit message:

This adds some v2 references to the usage file
This adds additional information about claim v1 and claim v2 manifests.

docs/usage.md, after:

# Using c2pa-attacks 

- [Command-line syntax](#command-line-syntax)
- [Supported target values](#supported-target-values)
  - [Direct substitution](#direct-substitution)
  - [Regex substitution](#regex-substitution)
- [Creating attack files](#creating-attack-files)
- [Providing a manifest definition on the command line](#providing-a-manifest-definition-on-the-command-line)
- [Adding a manifest to an asset file](#adding-a-manifest-to-an-asset-file)
  - [Specifying a parent file](#specifying-a-parent-file)
- [Detailed manifest report](#detailed-manifest-report)
- [Forced overwrite](#forced-overwrite)

## Command-line syntax

The command-line syntax for `c2pa-attacks` is:

```
c2pa-attacks [OPTIONS] [path]
```

Where `<path>`  is the path to the asset to embed a manifest into.

The following table describes the command-line options.

| CLI&nbsp;option&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | Short version | Argument | Description |
|-----|----|----|----|
| `--target` | `-t` | `<target>` | Specifies the target value for injection. One of: `title`, `author`, `claim_generator`, `person_identifier`, `vendor`, `label`, `instance_id`, `format`, or `regex`. See [Supported target values](#supported-target-values). |
| `--attack_file` | `-a` | `<attack_file>` | Specifies the file with the list of injections. See [Creating attack files](#creating-attack-files). |
| `--config` | `-c` | `<config>` | Specifies a manifest definition as a JSON string. See [Providing a manifest definition on the command line](#providing-a-manifest-definition-on-the-command-line). |
| `--manifest` | `-m` | `<manifest_file>` | Specifies a manifest file to add to an asset file. See [Adding a manifest to an asset file](#adding-a-manifest-to-an-asset-file).
| `--parent` | `-p` | `<parent_file>` | Specifies the path to the parent file. See [Specifying a parent file](#specifying-a-parent-file). |
| `--no_signing_verify` | None | N/A |  Do not validate the signature after signing an asset, which speeds up signing. See [Speeding up signing](#speeding-up-signing) |
| `--output` | `-o` | `<output_file>` | Specifies the path and title for the output files. See [Displaying manifest data](#adding-a-manifest-to-an-asset-file). |
| `--detailed` | `-d` | N/A | Display detailed C2PA-formatted manifest data. See [Detailed manifest report](#detailed-manifest-report). |
| `--trust` | N/A | N/A | Set additional trust validation parameters. See [Configuring trust support](#configuring-trust-support). |
| `--force` | `-f` | N/A | Force overwriting of the output file. See [Forced overwrite](#forced-overwrite). |
| `--version` | `-V` | N/A | Display version information. |
| `--help` | `-h` | N/A | Display CLI help information. |

## Supported target values

The tool can inject malicious strings into manfiests before signing in two ways, depending on the argument of the `--target` option:
- If the argument is `regex`, then it uses [**regular expression substitution**](#regex-substitution) where it replaces the string "C2PA_ATTACK" anywhere it occurs in the manifest JSON file.
- If the argument is any other valid value, it uses [**direct substitution**](#direct-substitution) where it replaces the value of one specified field in the manifest JSON file.  

### Direct substitution

This was the simplest approach when the c2pa-attacks tool was first created. Although, as the C2PA specification and the Rust SDK matured, this approach became less relevant. In most cases, the Regex subsitution is the better approach. Although, several of these options are still usable.

This approach is an easy way to start testing the most common fields without understanding JSON manifests.  The injections in this approach are done after the JSON file has been imported and turned into a manifest structure in memory. As noted below, some of these options are no longer relevant due to changes in the SDK.

This command line option only accepts one value as an argument.

| Argument value | Description | Example value in `test.json` |
|----------------|-------------|------------------------------|
| `title` | The title field for the image. | "My Title" |
| `author` | The author name within the Creative Work assertion. NOTE: The CreativeWork assertion was dropped from version 2.0 of the C2PA specification, but it will still be displayed by implementations that are backwards compatible with the 1.0 version. | "Content Creator" |
| `person_identifier` | With the Creative Work assertion, this refers to the Creative Work's URL identifier for that SchemaDotOrg Person entry. For further information, see [C2PA Technical Specification](https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/1.4/specs/C2PA_Specification.html#_use_of_schema_org). NOTE: The CreativeWork assertion was dropped from version 2.0 of the C2PA specification but it will still be displayed by implementations that are backwards compatible with the 1.0 version. | N/A |
| `claim_generator` | The claim generator field in the manifest. | "TestApp" |
| `vendor` | Sets the vendor prefix to be used when generating manifest labels. For some strings, you will see an error that the `claim could not be converted to CBOR`. This means that one of the characters in the attack string is incompatible with CBOR. Attack strings that are compatible with CBOR will work and images will be generated. Note that this value will get a urn:uuid appended to it by the SDK per the specification. | N/A |
| `label` | The label for the claim. This value is expected to be a [GUID](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs/blob/c2pa-v0.48.2/sdk/src/claim.rs#L429) and it is validated according to these [validation rules](https://docs.rs/uuid/latest/src/uuid/parser.rs.html#98-100). Injecting any malicious string that isn't in the GUID format enforced by UUID parser will throw an error. However, this might be useful if you have a need to set specific UUIDs as part of the attack. This represents the primary label for the claim and it does not affect other label values. | N/A |
| `instance_id` | The instance ID for the claim. NOTE: This is currently no longer supported because the latest version of the [SDK overrides](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs/blob/c2pa-v0.48.2/sdk/src/builder.rs#L993) any set value before signing. | N/A |
| `format` | Sets the format for the assertion's ingredient. NOTE: This is currently no longer supported because the current version of the SDK [determines the format](https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs/blob/c2pa-v0.48.2/sdk/src/builder.rs#L1125) by looking at the file extension of the file to be signed. If you want the format to be different from the actual file, then change the file extension before signing to a supported file type. See: https://github.com/contentauth/c2pa-rs/blob/c2pa-v0.48.2/sdk/src/utils/mime.rs | N/A |

### Regex substitution

If the target value is `regex`, then tool searches the JSON manifest file for the string, "C2PA_ATTACK" and replaces all occurrences of it with the malicious string before embedding the assertion into the file.  The advantage of this approach is that you can inject malicous strings into any field of the manifest file including custom fields. However, for unit testing, you would likely only want one "C2PA_ATTACK" string per manifest file.

Since the tool injects malicious values into a JSON string, any trailing backslashes or quotes are automatically escaped to ensure the manifest is valid JSON. In addition, the [Serde serialization framework](https://serde.rs/) checks for control characters (0x00 - 0x32) and throws an error if it detects them; see [serde_json's escape logic](https://github.com/serde-rs/json/blob/master/src/read.rs#L787). Therefore, these types of character injections are not allowed in the regex workflow. A future release will add a feature to inject these characters just before signing the file.

## Creating attack files

The C2PA Attack Tool needs to know what values to use for the injection attacks. 
The tool uses plain text _attack files_ that it reads one line at a time.

The specific attack strings that will be successful depend on the target application and its technology stack.  For instance, if you are targeting a web application, then the attack strings might be cross-site scripting injections. If you are targeting a desktop application, then an attack string might be a really long string of 'a's in order to trigger a buffer overflow. 

The [`attacks` directory](../attacks/README.md) contains a few example attack strings to help get you started.  Use these as a starting point to create your own attack files appropriate for your particular situation. 

## Providing a manifest definition on the command line

To provide the manifest definition in a command line argument instead of a file, use the `--config` / `-c` option.

For example, the following command adds a custom assertion called "org.contentauth.test".

```shell
c2pa-attacks sample/image.json \
-c '{"assertions": [{"label": "org.contentauth.test", "data": {"my_key": "C2PA_ATTACK"}}]}' \
-t regex \
-a attacks/xss.attack
```

## Adding a manifest to an asset file

To add manifest data to a file, provide the path to the asset file to be signed and use the `--manifest` / `-m` option with a manifest JSON file as the option argument. The sample directory contains examples for both version 1 (`test.json`) and version 2 (`test_claim_v2.json`) claim manifests. Next, use the `--output` / `-o` option to specify the desired location and name suffix for the output files.
If you do not use the `--output` / `-o` option, then the tool will not generate any output.
The tool will put all of the manipulated file in the same folder as the image specified in the output flag. 

CAUTION: If the output file is the same as the source file, the tool will overwrite the source file. 

For example, in the following example line, the tool puts all of the generated files in the `sample_out` directory and will create it if it does not exist. This command line is using the C2PA version 1 claim manifest example file. For a version 2 claim manifest, use `test_claim_v2.json` instead.

```shell
c2pa-attacks sample/image.jpg \
-m sample/test.json \
-o sample_out/signed_image.jpg \
-t title \
-a attacks/xss.attack
```

**IMPORTANT NOTE**: Since the tool produces multiple output files per run, it prefixes the filename specified in the output flag with the target type and (zero-based) line number from the attack file injected. Therefore, the above example would produce output files `title_xss_0_signed_image.jpg`, `title_xss_1_signed_image.jpg`, `title_xss_2_signed_image.jpg`, and so on.

### Specifying a parent file

A parent file represents the state of the image before the current edits were made. 

Specify a parent file as the argument to the `--parent` / `-p` option; for example:

```shell
c2pa-attacks sample/image.jpg \
-m sample/test.json \
-p sample/c.jpg \
-o sample_out/signed_image.jpg \
-t title \
-a attacks/xss.attack
```

You can also specify a parent file in the manifest definition.

## Detailed manifest report

To display a detailed report describing the internal C2PA format of manifests contained in the asset, use the `-d` option. This only works when `-v` is also specified.  The tool displays the detailed report to standard output (stdout). 

## Forced overwrite

The tool will return an error if the output file already exists. Use the `--force` / `-f` option to force overwriting the output file. For example:

```shell
c2pa-attacks sample/image.jpg \
-m sample/test.json \
-f -o sample_out/signed_image.jpg
```

## Speeding up signing

By default, `c2patool` validates the signature immediately after signing a manifest. To disable this and speed up the validation process, use the `--no_signing_verify` option.

## Configuring trust support

Enable trust support by using the `trust` subcommand, as follows:

```
c2patool [path] trust [OPTIONS]
```

When the `trust` subcommand is supplied, should c2patool encounter a problem with validating any of the claims in the asset, its JSON output will contain a `validation_status` field whose value is an array of objects, each describing a validation problem.

### Additional options

Several additional CLI options are available with the `trust` sub-command to specify the location of files containing the trust anchors list or known certificate list, as described in the following table. You can also use environment variables to specify these values.

<div class="trust-table" markdown="1">

| Option | Environment variable | Description |
| ------ | -------------------- | ----------- | 
| `--trust_anchors` | `C2PATOOL_TRUST_ANCHORS` | URL or relative path to a file containing a list of trust anchors (in PEM format) used to validate the manifest certificate chain. To be valid, the manifest certificate chain must lead to a certificate on the trust list. All certificates in the trust anchor list must have the [Basic Constraints extension](https://docs.digicert.com/en/iot-trust-manager/certificate-templates/create-json-formatted-certificate-templates/extensions/basic-constraints.html) and the CA attribute of this extension must be `True`.  |
| `--allowed_list` | `C2PATOOL_ALLOWED_LIST` | URL or relative path to a file containing a list of end-entity certificates (in PEM format) to trust. These certificates are used to sign the manifest. Supersedes the `trust_anchors` setting. The list must NOT contain certificates with the [Basic Constraints extension](https://docs.digicert.com/en/iot-trust-manager/certificate-templates/create-json-formatted-certificate-templates/extensions/basic-constraints.html) with the CA attribute `True`. |
| `--trust_config` | `C2PATOOL_TRUST_CONFIG` | URL or relative path to a file containing the allowed set of custom certificate extended key usages (EKUs). Each entry in the list is an object identifiers in [OID dot notation](http://www.oid-info.com/#oid) format.  |
